README.md, before:

Heroku sbt Plugin [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/heroku/sbt-heroku.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/heroku/sbt-heroku)
=================

This plugin is used to deploy Scala and Play applications directly to Heroku without pushing to a Git repository.
This is can be useful when deploying from a CI server.

## Using the Plugin

Add the following to your `project/plugins.sbt` file:

```scala
resolvers += Resolver.url("heroku-sbt-plugin-releases",
  url("https://dl.bintray.com/heroku/sbt-plugins/"))(Resolver.ivyStylePatterns)

addSbtPlugin("com.heroku" % "sbt-heroku" % "0.3.3")
```

If you're not using Play, then you'll also need to add the
[sbt-native-packager plugin](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-native-packager), which creates a `stage` task.

Next, add something like this to your `build.sbt`

```scala
herokuAppName in Compile := "your-heroku-app-name"
```

Now, if you have the [Heroku Toolbelt](https://toolbelt.heroku.com/) installed, run:

```sh-session
$ sbt stage deployHeroku
```

If you do not have the toolbelt installed, then run:

```sh-session
$ HEROKU_API_KEY="xxx-xxx-xxxx" sbt stage deployHeroku
```

And replace "xxx-xxx-xxxx" with the value of your Heroku API token.

### Requirements

+  It is required that you use sbt 0.13.5 or greater.

+  You must use Java 1.7 or higher locally.

+  This plugin has not been tested with Play 2.0 or 2.1.

### Configuring the Plugin

You may set the desired JDK version like so:

```scala
herokuJdkVersion in Compile := "1.8"
```

Valid values are `1.6`, `1.7`, and `1.8`. The default is `1.8`

You can set configuration variables like so:

```scala
herokuConfigVars in Compile := Map(
  "MY_VAR" -> "some value",
  "JAVA_OPTS" -> "-Xmx384m -Xss512k -XX:+UseCompressedOops"
)
```

Any variable defined in `herokuConfigVars` will override defaults.

You may set process types (similar to a `Procfile`) with `herokuProcessTypes`:

```scala
herokuProcessTypes in Compile := Map(
  "web" -> "target/universal/stage/bin/my-app -Dhttp.port=$PORT",
  "worker" -> "java -jar target/universal/stage/lib/my-worker.jar"
)
```

You can include additional directories in the slug (they must be relative to the project root):

```scala
herokuIncludePaths in Compile := Seq(
  "app", "conf/routes", "public/javascripts"
)
```

You can also set the [Heroku runtime stack](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cedar):

```scala
herokuStack in Compile := "cedar-14"
```

See the `src/sbt-test` directory for examples.

## Running a Remote Console

When using `sbt-native-packager` version 0.7.6 or greater, sbt-heroku will create a 
`console` process type for you. This command can be run like so:

```sh-session
$ heroku run console -a <appname>
Running `console` attached to terminal... up, run.5154
Picked up JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS: -Xmx384m  -Djava.rmi.server.useCodebaseOnly=true
Failed to created JLineReader: java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: scala/tools/jline/console/completer/Completer
Falling back to SimpleReader.
Welcome to Scala version 2.10.4 (OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM, Java 1.8.0_20).
Type in expressions to have them evaluated.
Type :help for more information.

scala> 
```

If you are using Play 2.x, then you will need to upgrade `sbt-native-packager` manually 
(because Play uses version `0.7.4` by default). 
You can do this by adding the following line of code to your `project/plugins.sbt`:

```
addSbtPlugin("com.typesafe.sbt" % "sbt-native-packager" % "0.7.6")
```

## Deploying to Multiple Environments

To deploy to multiple Heroku app environments, you can use either system properties, environment variables, or any other native sbt/Java configuration method.  For example, you might define your `appName` as a Map and choose a value with
the system property as a key.

```scala
herokuAppName in Compile := Map(
  "test" -> "your-heroku-app-test",
  "stg"  -> "your-heroku-app-stage",
  "prod" -> "your-heroku-app-prod"
).getOrElse(sys.props("appEnv"), "your-heroku-app-dev")
```

Then run the sbt command like so:

```sh-session
$ sbt -DappEnv=test stage deployHeroku
```

### Deploying from Git Branches

Another option when using multiple environments is to deploy from a Git branch that corresponds to the environment. This is particularly useful if you are using [git-flow](https://github.com/nvie/gitflow) or a similar process. 

First, add the sbt-git plugin ot your `project/plugins.sbt` like this:

```scala
resolvers += "jgit-repo" at "http://download.eclipse.org/jgit/maven"

addSbtPlugin("com.typesafe.sbt" % "sbt-git" % "0.6.4")
```

Then in your `build.sbt` you can configure the sbt-heroku plugin to deploy to the environment that corresponds to the current Git branch like this:

```scala
import com.typesafe.sbt.SbtGit._

// ...

herokuAppName in Compile := Map(
  "testing"    -> "myapp-testing",
  "staging"    -> "myapp-staging",
  "production" -> "myapp"
).getOrElse(git.gitCurrentBranch.value, "myapp-dev")

showCurrentGitBranch
```

## Hacking

In order to run the test suite, you must have the [Heroku Toolbelt](https://toolbelt.heroku.com/) installed. Then run:

```sh-session
$ sbt scripted
```

To run an individual test, use a command like this:

```sh-session
$ sbt "scripted settings/config_vars"
```

The heavy lifting for this plugin is done by the `heroku-deploy` library. The source code for that project can be found
in the [heroku-maven-plugin repository](https://github.com/heroku/heroku-maven-plugin/tree/master/heroku-deploy). If you
need to update that library, do this:

```sh-session
$ git clone https://github.com/heroku/heroku-maven-plugin
$ cd heroku-maven-plugin/heroku-deploy
# make your changes
$ mvn clean install
```

Then update the `heroku-deploy` dependency version in the sbt-heroku `build.sbt` to 0.3.3-SNAPSHOT (or whatever
version is specified in the heroku-deploy `pom.xml`). The next time you run the `scripted` tests it will pick up the
snapshot version from your local Maven repository.

Commit message:

Added herokuSkipSubProjects setting, which defaults to true so that all sub projects are skipped. It can be set to false to deploy subjects in addition to the root project, but it is currently all or none. Fixes #4

README.md, after:

Heroku sbt Plugin [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/heroku/sbt-heroku.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/heroku/sbt-heroku)
=================

This plugin is used to deploy Scala and Play applications directly to Heroku without pushing to a Git repository.
This is can be useful when deploying from a CI server.

## Using the Plugin

Add the following to your `project/plugins.sbt` file:

```scala
resolvers += Resolver.url("heroku-sbt-plugin-releases",
  url("https://dl.bintray.com/heroku/sbt-plugins/"))(Resolver.ivyStylePatterns)

addSbtPlugin("com.heroku" % "sbt-heroku" % "0.3.3")
```

If you're not using Play, then you'll also need to add the
[sbt-native-packager plugin](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-native-packager), which creates a `stage` task.

Next, add something like this to your `build.sbt`

```scala
herokuAppName in Compile := "your-heroku-app-name"
```

Now, if you have the [Heroku Toolbelt](https://toolbelt.heroku.com/) installed, run:

```sh-session
$ sbt stage deployHeroku
```

If you do not have the toolbelt installed, then run:

```sh-session
$ HEROKU_API_KEY="xxx-xxx-xxxx" sbt stage deployHeroku
```

And replace "xxx-xxx-xxxx" with the value of your Heroku API token.

### Requirements

+  It is required that you use sbt 0.13.5 or greater.

+  You must use Java 1.7 or higher locally.

+  This plugin has not been tested with Play 2.0 or 2.1.

### Configuring the Plugin

You may set the desired JDK version like so:

```scala
herokuJdkVersion in Compile := "1.8"
```

Valid values are `1.6`, `1.7`, and `1.8`. The default is `1.8`

You can set configuration variables like so:

```scala
herokuConfigVars in Compile := Map(
  "MY_VAR" -> "some value",
  "JAVA_OPTS" -> "-Xmx384m -Xss512k -XX:+UseCompressedOops"
)
```

Any variable defined in `herokuConfigVars` will override defaults.

You may set process types (similar to a `Procfile`) with `herokuProcessTypes`:

```scala
herokuProcessTypes in Compile := Map(
  "web" -> "target/universal/stage/bin/my-app -Dhttp.port=$PORT",
  "worker" -> "java -jar target/universal/stage/lib/my-worker.jar"
)
```

You can include additional directories in the slug (they must be relative to the project root):

```scala
herokuIncludePaths in Compile := Seq(
  "app", "conf/routes", "public/javascripts"
)
```

You can also set the [Heroku runtime stack](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cedar):

```scala
herokuStack in Compile := "cedar-14"
```

You can run the plugin against all sub-projects (in addition to the root project) by setting the following option:

```scala
herokuSkipSubProjects in Compile := false
```

This defaults to `true` (and currently it only runs against all sub-projects or none).

See the `src/sbt-test` directory for examples.

## Running a Remote Console

When using `sbt-native-packager` version 0.7.6 or greater, sbt-heroku will create a 
`console` process type for you. This command can be run like so:

```sh-session
$ heroku run console -a <appname>
Running `console` attached to terminal... up, run.5154
Picked up JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS: -Xmx384m  -Djava.rmi.server.useCodebaseOnly=true
Failed to created JLineReader: java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: scala/tools/jline/console/completer/Completer
Falling back to SimpleReader.
Welcome to Scala version 2.10.4 (OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM, Java 1.8.0_20).
Type in expressions to have them evaluated.
Type :help for more information.

scala> 
```

If you are using Play 2.x, then you will need to upgrade `sbt-native-packager` manually 
(because Play uses version `0.7.4` by default). 
You can do this by adding the following line of code to your `project/plugins.sbt`:

```
addSbtPlugin("com.typesafe.sbt" % "sbt-native-packager" % "0.7.6")
```

## Deploying to Multiple Environments

To deploy to multiple Heroku app environments, you can use either system properties, environment variables, or any other native sbt/Java configuration method.  For example, you might define your `appName` as a Map and choose a value with
the system property as a key.

```scala
herokuAppName in Compile := Map(
  "test" -> "your-heroku-app-test",
  "stg"  -> "your-heroku-app-stage",
  "prod" -> "your-heroku-app-prod"
).getOrElse(sys.props("appEnv"), "your-heroku-app-dev")
```

Then run the sbt command like so:

```sh-session
$ sbt -DappEnv=test stage deployHeroku
```

### Deploying from Git Branches

Another option when using multiple environments is to deploy from a Git branch that corresponds to the environment. This is particularly useful if you are using [git-flow](https://github.com/nvie/gitflow) or a similar process. 

First, add the sbt-git plugin ot your `project/plugins.sbt` like this:

```scala
resolvers += "jgit-repo" at "http://download.eclipse.org/jgit/maven"

addSbtPlugin("com.typesafe.sbt" % "sbt-git" % "0.6.4")
```

Then in your `build.sbt` you can configure the sbt-heroku plugin to deploy to the environment that corresponds to the current Git branch like this:

```scala
import com.typesafe.sbt.SbtGit._

// ...

herokuAppName in Compile := Map(
  "testing"    -> "myapp-testing",
  "staging"    -> "myapp-staging",
  "production" -> "myapp"
).getOrElse(git.gitCurrentBranch.value, "myapp-dev")

showCurrentGitBranch
```

## Hacking

In order to run the test suite, you must have the [Heroku Toolbelt](https://toolbelt.heroku.com/) installed. Then run:

```sh-session
$ sbt scripted
```

To run an individual test, use a command like this:

```sh-session
$ sbt "scripted settings/config_vars"
```

The heavy lifting for this plugin is done by the `heroku-deploy` library. The source code for that project can be found
in the [heroku-maven-plugin repository](https://github.com/heroku/heroku-maven-plugin/tree/master/heroku-deploy). If you
need to update that library, do this:

```sh-session
$ git clone https://github.com/heroku/heroku-maven-plugin
$ cd heroku-maven-plugin/heroku-deploy
# make your changes
$ mvn clean install
```

Then update the `heroku-deploy` dependency version in the sbt-heroku `build.sbt` to 0.3.3-SNAPSHOT (or whatever
version is specified in the heroku-deploy `pom.xml`). The next time you run the `scripted` tests it will pick up the
snapshot version from your local Maven repository.
